- [Instructor] Previously, you learned
how to delay event conception
until a certain phase of transaction
with @TransactionalEventListener.
Let's use it to our advantage to fix the use-case
of placing an order when an email is sent
even though rollback has occurred.
In our project, we have order package with OrderService.
OrderService has a method, placeOrder,
which accepts an order as an argument.
As you can see, it is changing
the status of the order to complete it,
saving it to the database,
and after that, publishing an order-completed event.
Now, we need to create listener
in promotion listeners clause,
which listens for order-completed event.
We also need to call promotion service
dot calculate reward points.
Whenever a new order is made,
our listener appends rewards status points
to the customer.
Imagine here logic that iterates
through each order entry
that contains products with quantities
and calculates the sum of all gathered reward points.
For the sake of simulation,
reward points have been hard-coded to 10 for each order.
This number is appended
to the existing customer reward points.
We also need to append email listener
for order-completed event,
which is responsible for sending out an email.
Now let's check our two test cases,
one, where a transaction has been successfully committed
and an email has been sent,
and another, where rollback is occurring
and email should not be sent.
Keep in mind, there is one caveat
to put rollback to the test.
Since we want our commit to fail,
there is a constraint on customer reward points
which only accepts two digits,
which means customers have a maximum
of 99 reward points.
Since we start with 90 points
and on each order append 10 more,
we expect the commit to fail.
Let's run them through.
Well, the first one seems fine.
The second one failed.
It seems that rollback did occur
but our email went through.
We can also see that in the console log.
Email did get triggered after reward points listener.
Let's notify our email listener
to get triggered only after successful commit.
For that, we will use @TransactionalEventListener
with phase after commit.
Even if we leave out the phase,
it will still work, as this is the default phase.
Now, let's rerun our test.
And now we have covered all use-cases.